NBA/README.md, before:

# Welcome to My Nba Game Analysis
Given an NBA game's statistics, my mission was to calculate and display the statistics per player on the home and away teams.

## Task
I was given sample NBA game .txt files that included an array of play data. My code summarizes each player's:
Field Goals
Filed Goal Attempts
Field Goal %
3-Pointers
3-Point Attempts
3-Point %
Free Throws
Free Throw Attempts
Free Throw %
Offensive Rebounds
Defensive Rebounds
Total Rebounds
Assists
Steals
Blocks
Turnovers
Personal Fouls
Points

The printing function prints the output in tablular format (although the spacing is wonky).

## Description
Each play is the following format:
PERIOD|REMAINING_SEC|RELEVANT_TEAM|AWAY_TEAM|HOME_TEAM|AWAY_SCORE|HOME_SCORE|DESCRIPTION

The output is in this format:
{"home_team": {"name": TEAM_NAME, "players_data": DATA}, "away_team": {"name": TEAM_NAME, "players_data": DATA}}
DATA will be an array of hashes with this format:
{"player_name": XXX, "FG": XXX, "FGA": XXX, "FG%": XXX, "3P": XXX, "3PA": XXX, "3P%": XXX, "FT": XXX, "FTA": XXX, "FT%": XXX, "ORB": XXX, "DRB": XXX, "TRB": XXX, "AST": XXX, "STL": XXX, "BLK": XXX, "TOV": XXX, "PF": XXX, "PTS": XXX}

And the table is in this format:
Players	    FG	FGA	FG%	    3P	3PA	3P%	    FT	FTA	FT%	    ORB	DRB	TRB	AST	STL	BLK	TOV	PF	PTS
Player00	XX	XX	.XXX	X	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	XX	XX	X	X	XX	XX	XX
Totals	    XX	XX	.XXX	X	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	XX	XX	X	X	XX	XX	XX

The challenge was to find a way to search for terms that would reliably find the statistics, yet allow for inconsistencies in how the statistics are recorded. For example, both of these plays are Turnovers, but the first also includes a steal.

1|458.0|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|8|14|Turnover by D. Green (bad pass; steal by P. Patterson)
1|435.0|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|8|16|Turnover by D. SchrÃ¶der (bad pass)

I achieved this by first having an updates_stats method that would search the play's description for "make" using regular expressions (regex) when there is one event in the description, and also an update method to find the second event (e.g. steal.)

Some of the statistics collection is tricky. In the example below, the home team has ball possession. However I'm collecting the foul data. In this case, the code finds "foul by" and then swaps the team (i.e. Oklahoma City) to update the player's foul statistic.
1|401.0|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|11|16|Personal foul by T. Ferguson (drawn by K. Durant)

The print method:
Prints the data in tabular format




The code functions:
load_data
Initializes Result List
Opens CSV file
Reads rows
Returns result

is_away_team
Checks if the current team is the away team

update_stats
Checks for Scoring Plays and Events (missed shots, fouls, rebounds, etc.)

calculate_percentages
Calculates the percentages for field goals, 3-points, free throws

initialize_player_stats
Initializes a player's stats (when they are not in the results yet)

analyse_nba_game
Initializes result dictionary
Define Regex Patterns ("patterns")
Iterates over each play, 
Determines and updates the team name
Determines team_key (team the player's stats will be assigned to)
Updates Turnovers and Steals
Determines player
Updates fouls, assists, blocks (these plays will be combined with another play found in the update_stats)

print_nba_game_stats
First prints a header
For each player in the data, iterates over the player statistics and prints them
Keeps a total_stats for each event, and then prints the totals







## Installation
Install Python 3 to your system
Data .txt file; edit line 225 with the data file in parentheses
play_by_play_moves = load_data("nba_game_warriors_thunder.txt")
To run, in the terminal type: python3 my_nba_game_analysis.py


## Usage
The code will iterate through each line/play array

```

### The Core Team

Commit message:

Ability to enter data file in command line

NBA/README.md, after:

# Welcome to My Nba Game Analysis
Given an NBA game's statistics, my mission was to calculate and display the statistics per player on the home and away teams.

## Task
I was given sample NBA game .txt files that included an array of play data. My code summarizes each player's:
Field Goals
Filed Goal Attempts
Field Goal %
3-Pointers
3-Point Attempts
3-Point %
Free Throws
Free Throw Attempts
Free Throw %
Offensive Rebounds
Defensive Rebounds
Total Rebounds
Assists
Steals
Blocks
Turnovers
Personal Fouls
Points

The printing function prints the output in tablular format (although the spacing is wonky).

## Description
Each play is the following format:
PERIOD|REMAINING_SEC|RELEVANT_TEAM|AWAY_TEAM|HOME_TEAM|AWAY_SCORE|HOME_SCORE|DESCRIPTION

The output is in this format:
{"home_team": {"name": TEAM_NAME, "players_data": DATA}, "away_team": {"name": TEAM_NAME, "players_data": DATA}}
DATA will be an array of hashes with this format:
{"player_name": XXX, "FG": XXX, "FGA": XXX, "FG%": XXX, "3P": XXX, "3PA": XXX, "3P%": XXX, "FT": XXX, "FTA": XXX, "FT%": XXX, "ORB": XXX, "DRB": XXX, "TRB": XXX, "AST": XXX, "STL": XXX, "BLK": XXX, "TOV": XXX, "PF": XXX, "PTS": XXX}

And the table is in this format:
Players	    FG	FGA	FG%	    3P	3PA	3P%	    FT	FTA	FT%	    ORB	DRB	TRB	AST	STL	BLK	TOV	PF	PTS
Player00	XX	XX	.XXX	X	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	XX	XX	X	X	XX	XX	XX
Totals	    XX	XX	.XXX	X	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	.XXX	XX	XX	XX	XX	X	X	XX	XX	XX

The challenge was to find a way to search for terms that would reliably find the statistics, yet allow for inconsistencies in how the statistics are recorded. For example, both of these plays are Turnovers, but the first also includes a steal.

1|458.0|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|8|14|Turnover by D. Green (bad pass; steal by P. Patterson)
1|435.0|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|8|16|Turnover by D. SchrÃ¶der (bad pass)

I achieved this by first having an updates_stats method that would search the play's description for "make" using regular expressions (regex) when there is one event in the description, and also an update method to find the second event (e.g. steal.)

Some of the statistics collection is tricky. In the example below, the home team has ball possession. However I'm collecting the foul data. In this case, the code finds "foul by" and then swaps the team (i.e. Oklahoma City) to update the player's foul statistic.
1|401.0|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|OKLAHOMA_CITY_THUNDER|GOLDEN_STATE_WARRIORS|11|16|Personal foul by T. Ferguson (drawn by K. Durant)

The print method:
Prints the data in tabular format




The code functions:
load_data
Initializes Result List
Opens CSV file
Reads rows
Returns result

is_away_team
Checks if the current team is the away team

update_stats
Checks for Scoring Plays and Events (missed shots, fouls, rebounds, etc.)

calculate_percentages
Calculates the percentages for field goals, 3-points, free throws

initialize_player_stats
Initializes a player's stats (when they are not in the results yet)

analyse_nba_game
Initializes result dictionary
Define Regex Patterns ("patterns")
Iterates over each play, 
Determines and updates the team name
Determines team_key (team the player's stats will be assigned to)
Updates Turnovers and Steals
Determines player
Updates fouls, assists, blocks (these plays will be combined with another play found in the update_stats)

print_nba_game_stats
First prints a header
For each player in the data, iterates over the player statistics and prints them
Keeps a total_stats for each event, and then prints the totals

_main
Loads the data
Analyzes the game
prints the array summary
prints Home Team Stats in tabular format
prints Away Team Stats in tablular format





## Installation
Install Python 3 to your system
The Data .txt file in the same directory as my_nba_game_analysis.py
In the command line, type: python3 my_nba_game_analysis.py data.txt

For example, my data file is nba_game_warriors_thunder.txt:
python3 my_nba_game_analysis.py nba_game_warriors_thunder.txt



## Usage
The code will analyze a game of basketball's play-by-play data.
It will print the summary array, then print in table format.

```

### The Core Team
